exercises.md, before:

# Exercises

## Week 1

- [x] create github account
- [x] do hello world
- [x] add a repository for the folio
- [x] answer questions
- [] add notes about readings to [Readings](readings.md)

### Questions

#### What types of writing do you do (ie fiction, nonfiction, poetry, or other)?

- fiction - most of my writing is fiction because i find sitting down and writing a short story the most accessible type of writing.
- nonfiction - i've dipped my toe into the waters of creative nonfiction but i'd like to commit more time to this genre.
- screenwriting - i probably most enjoy screenwriting, although i rarely practice it. with other types of writing, pieces are complete once the piece of writing is complete; screenwriting is only fully complete once the film is made. 
- poetry - i dabble but rarely.

#### What tools (or techniques) do you use to write?

- microsoft word 
- qwerty 
- laptop
- my desk
- notes app on iphone and computer
- early mornings

#### How do these tools shape the way you write (e.g., constrain the way you write or facilitate your writing)?

- the easy layout of word and my familiarity with it makes it the easiest platform for me to write. i don't have to think about how i'm to put words on the page in a literal sense, i just let me fingers work subconciously and word captures that
- the keyboard layout, similar to my relationship with word, facilitates my writing in a sub-conciously easy way.
- the accessibility and flexibility of having a laptop means, if i have to, i can take my writing anywhere i want to go. although i prefer routine and consistency, even just moving my writing from my desk to my bed to the floor of my room is facilitated because of the portablility of my laptop.
- my desk is my comfort zone of writing. when i sit at my desk i feel like stuff will get done. perhaps my desk constrains me in a creative sense, if i were to write in other locations/environments/atmospheres, i may find new inspiration for my writing. 
- i use the notes app on my phone excessively, but only for single sentences or ideas, not for longer pieces. i use it as a place to leave notes that remind me of what to work on later
- if writing isn't done early in my mornings, it will not be done. early mornings are a tool that both faciliate and constrain my writing. if i were to be able to write at other times in the day, i owuldn't be limited.


## Week 2

- [x] add notes about readings to [readings](readings.md)
- [x] answer questions
- [x] decide on piece to do case study on

### Questions

#### How is electronic literature different from print literature?

- Electronic literature is literature made for the purpose of being consumed digitally. Whereas print literature can be, now in our ever-evolving word of technology, be consumed in many forms (i.e. audiobooks, print, online, on tablets/phones, etc.), electronic literature is made to be exclusively published on one type of medium (being an electronic device). 
- Consuming print literature may take more effort to actively particpate in that say TV, where it is easy to passively let content wash over you, electronic literature in a way goes beyond the active practice of reading. With the choose-your-own-adventure format a popular one amongst electronic literature, it is this type of interactive mode that electronic literature exists in that demands even more of an active participation from the consumer than just reading a book would entail. In a way, the interactive nature of some electronic literature demands attention in a way that allows the consumer to be, momentarily, a creator. If choosing one's adventure creates their own story, consumers become some sort of author in this process.
- Whereas print literature existed for a long time, electronic literature is still relatively new and is still, and forever will be, developing.
- The accessibility of print and electronic literature differs immensely, how one can get their hands on these pieces may be more or less accessible, depending on the text and the parameters in which surround it.
- The limits of the page does not define electronic literature.

#### What are some of the qualities of electronic literature?

- The interactive nature of the medium forces consumers to partipate in an active way. It's incredibly, if not impossible, to consume some types of electronic literature passively. 
- Often times, the protagonist is 'you', the works are created, unlike most print literature, using second-person persepctive. Second-person creates more complicity with interacting users and second-person.
- Can be infinite.
- The medium in which it is performed/published is on an electronic device. Wether a phone/laptop/tablet, it can only be consumed through technology.
- Electronic literature is made to be consumed exclusively on one medium, if it were to be printed out, the literature would not be combatible. 
- Conceptual work can be apart of it.
- Can't physically see how far there is to go of a piece, meaning that the reader has to engage with the piece for an unknown amount of time. The sink-cost fallacy I think plays into this, meaning that it's tempting to not finish a piece if the reader can't see/know how long the piece is, so investing time and effort into a piece that they will never finish feels disappointing.
- There will always be a work that will be an outlier, no matter the parameters or rules surrounding electronic literature.
- There are no gatekeepers of electronic literature.
- It is organic.
- You have to learn a work to be able to read a work. Like learning an instrument before you play it.
- What is it doing materially? What is it the user does that changes the piece? How does the piece change with the user?


### Taroko Gorge remix: [Toy Garbage](https://nickm.com/taroko_gorge/toy_garbage/) by Talan Memmott

#### What aspects of the remix are the same?

- The way the poem moves, the lines that appear in the rhythm they're intended to be read, moving the reader along with the motion of the poem. 
- Although the content of the poem is vastly different, the way in which the lines are structured is quite similar. Often the lines will read a noun then verb then another noun, the action of one things doing something to another thing is borrowed from Taroko Gorge.

#### What aspects of the remix are different?

- The punctuation of Toy Garbage differs from Taroko Gorge in that it is filled with exclamation marks, prompting an excited/enthusiastic tone to the poem.
- The colour scheme is very different, from minimal colour other than the deep grass green background and the soft pink text to a background made up of panels of four colours in pastel: pinky red, green, yellow and blue, colours soft enough to be the background of a child's bedroom or play centre.
- The type is different, from the basic san-serifed type of Taroko Gorge to the rounded, capitalised, almost hand-written-esque type of Toy Garbage.
- The title is different, but borrows the first letters of the words Taroko Gorge, becoming Toy Garbage. 
- As mentioned above, the content of the poem is vastly different. Where the theme of Taroko Gorge is the gorge itself, prompting imagery and descriptions of water and nature and trees and rocks, Toy Garbage instead prompts imagery of toys, of children's play, of verbs in relation to the movements of children.

#### Is the remix successful (why or why not)?

- The way the remix has borrowed the bones of the structure of Taroko Gorge and then applied this to a different theme/differe subject, being a volume of toys, works well in adopting a notion and using it on a different idea to create a new piece of art altogether. I think Toy Garbage borrows just enough from Taroko Gorge, in turn evolving everything else to have an undertone of consistencey related to the original poem, whilst now creating another poem of originality.
- The use of punctuation with the exclamation marks impacts of the reading of the poem, and with it the movement. It changes the tone to one of somewhat seriousness to one of humour.

## Week 3 - public holiday

## Week 4

- [x] submit presentation assignment
- [ ] start to brainstorm ideas for proposal

Websites to keep in mind:
- adobe colour
- google fonts

Commit message:

add we walk to you remix

exercises.md, after:

# Exercises

## Week 1

- [x] create github account
- [x] do hello world
- [x] add a repository for the folio
- [x] answer questions
- [x] add notes about readings to [Readings](readings.md)

### Questions

#### What types of writing do you do (ie fiction, nonfiction, poetry, or other)?

- fiction - most of my writing is fiction because i find sitting down and writing a short story the most accessible type of writing.
- nonfiction - i've dipped my toe into the waters of creative nonfiction but i'd like to commit more time to this genre.
- screenwriting - i probably most enjoy screenwriting, although i rarely practice it. with other types of writing, pieces are complete once the piece of writing is complete; screenwriting is only fully complete once the film is made. 
- poetry - i dabble but rarely.

#### What tools (or techniques) do you use to write?

- microsoft word 
- qwerty 
- laptop
- my desk
- notes app on iphone and computer
- early mornings

#### How do these tools shape the way you write (e.g., constrain the way you write or facilitate your writing)?

- the easy layout of word and my familiarity with it makes it the easiest platform for me to write. i don't have to think about how i'm to put words on the page in a literal sense, i just let me fingers work subconciously and word captures that
- the keyboard layout, similar to my relationship with word, facilitates my writing in a sub-conciously easy way.
- the accessibility and flexibility of having a laptop means, if i have to, i can take my writing anywhere i want to go. although i prefer routine and consistency, even just moving my writing from my desk to my bed to the floor of my room is facilitated because of the portablility of my laptop.
- my desk is my comfort zone of writing. when i sit at my desk i feel like stuff will get done. perhaps my desk constrains me in a creative sense, if i were to write in other locations/environments/atmospheres, i may find new inspiration for my writing. 
- i use the notes app on my phone excessively, but only for single sentences or ideas, not for longer pieces. i use it as a place to leave notes that remind me of what to work on later
- if writing isn't done early in my mornings, it will not be done. early mornings are a tool that both faciliate and constrain my writing. if i were to be able to write at other times in the day, i owuldn't be limited.


## Week 2

- [x] add notes about readings to [readings](readings.md)
- [x] answer questions
- [x] decide on piece to do case study on

### Questions

#### How is electronic literature different from print literature?

- Electronic literature is literature made for the purpose of being consumed digitally. Whereas print literature can be, now in our ever-evolving word of technology, be consumed in many forms (i.e. audiobooks, print, online, on tablets/phones, etc.), electronic literature is made to be exclusively published on one type of medium (being an electronic device). 
- Consuming print literature may take more effort to actively particpate in that say TV, where it is easy to passively let content wash over you, electronic literature in a way goes beyond the active practice of reading. With the choose-your-own-adventure format a popular one amongst electronic literature, it is this type of interactive mode that electronic literature exists in that demands even more of an active participation from the consumer than just reading a book would entail. In a way, the interactive nature of some electronic literature demands attention in a way that allows the consumer to be, momentarily, a creator. If choosing one's adventure creates their own story, consumers become some sort of author in this process.
- Whereas print literature existed for a long time, electronic literature is still relatively new and is still, and forever will be, developing.
- The accessibility of print and electronic literature differs immensely, how one can get their hands on these pieces may be more or less accessible, depending on the text and the parameters in which surround it.
- The limits of the page does not define electronic literature.

#### What are some of the qualities of electronic literature?

- The interactive nature of the medium forces consumers to partipate in an active way. It's incredibly, if not impossible, to consume some types of electronic literature passively. 
- Often times, the protagonist is 'you', the works are created, unlike most print literature, using second-person persepctive. Second-person creates more complicity with interacting users and second-person.
- Can be infinite.
- The medium in which it is performed/published is on an electronic device. Wether a phone/laptop/tablet, it can only be consumed through technology.
- Electronic literature is made to be consumed exclusively on one medium, if it were to be printed out, the literature would not be combatible. 
- Conceptual work can be apart of it.
- Can't physically see how far there is to go of a piece, meaning that the reader has to engage with the piece for an unknown amount of time. The sink-cost fallacy I think plays into this, meaning that it's tempting to not finish a piece if the reader can't see/know how long the piece is, so investing time and effort into a piece that they will never finish feels disappointing.
- There will always be a work that will be an outlier, no matter the parameters or rules surrounding electronic literature.
- There are no gatekeepers of electronic literature.
- It is organic.
- You have to learn a work to be able to read a work. Like learning an instrument before you play it.
- What is it doing materially? What is it the user does that changes the piece? How does the piece change with the user?


### Taroko Gorge remix: [Toy Garbage](https://nickm.com/taroko_gorge/toy_garbage/) by Talan Memmott

#### What aspects of the remix are the same?

- The way the poem moves, the lines that appear in the rhythm they're intended to be read, moving the reader along with the motion of the poem. 
- Although the content of the poem is vastly different, the way in which the lines are structured is quite similar. Often the lines will read a noun then verb then another noun, the action of one things doing something to another thing is borrowed from Taroko Gorge.

#### What aspects of the remix are different?

- The punctuation of Toy Garbage differs from Taroko Gorge in that it is filled with exclamation marks, prompting an excited/enthusiastic tone to the poem.
- The colour scheme is very different, from minimal colour other than the deep grass green background and the soft pink text to a background made up of panels of four colours in pastel: pinky red, green, yellow and blue, colours soft enough to be the background of a child's bedroom or play centre.
- The type is different, from the basic san-serifed type of Taroko Gorge to the rounded, capitalised, almost hand-written-esque type of Toy Garbage.
- The title is different, but borrows the first letters of the words Taroko Gorge, becoming Toy Garbage. 
- As mentioned above, the content of the poem is vastly different. Where the theme of Taroko Gorge is the gorge itself, prompting imagery and descriptions of water and nature and trees and rocks, Toy Garbage instead prompts imagery of toys, of children's play, of verbs in relation to the movements of children.

#### Is the remix successful (why or why not)?

- The way the remix has borrowed the bones of the structure of Taroko Gorge and then applied this to a different theme/differe subject, being a volume of toys, works well in adopting a notion and using it on a different idea to create a new piece of art altogether. I think Toy Garbage borrows just enough from Taroko Gorge, in turn evolving everything else to have an undertone of consistencey related to the original poem, whilst now creating another poem of originality.
- The use of punctuation with the exclamation marks impacts of the reading of the poem, and with it the movement. It changes the tone to one of somewhat seriousness to one of humour.

## Week 3 - public holiday

## Week 4

- [x] submit presentation assignment
- [ ] start to brainstorm ideas for proposal

Websites to keep in mind:
- adobe colour
- google fonts

### We Walk to You Remix

[When I go to dinner](https://diligent-zircon-sailfish.glitch.me)
